If your games keep stuttering and you
get low FPS, your CPU usage is always
high or your GPU doesn't get utilized as
much, this video is the one for you
because today we will be fixing the high
CPU usage and low GPU utilization during
gaming to boost FPS, fix, and FPS drops
without any BS. So, let's get right into
it. One of the core reasons why your CPU
usage is high without any actual
performance gain is a setting called
power throttling, which limits the CPU's
performance to save power for background
tasks causing massive stutters and FPS
drops in games. To disable it, press the
Windows and R key at the same time. Then
type in gpedit.msc
and then hit enter. Once this opens up,
go to the administrative templates, then
go onto system and then scroll down
until you can find the power management.
Inside of here, go to power throttling
settings. Double click on turn off power
throttling and then just simply go ahead
and enable this option. Enabling this
will turn off power throttling, ensuring
that you will get the most CPU
performance while you're gaming. Simply
hit apply, okay, and then close out of
this. Next up is a setting that a lot of
people get wrong, and it's the system
configuration one. So, a lot of people
will tell you to open up the system
configuration and then go ahead and move
on to the boot tab, then go into the
advanced option, then check the number
of processors and set it to the maximum
number. But this is a completely useless
setting and it does not improve the CPU
performance. A lot of people on YouTube
think that it allocates all the CPU
cores to your system, which is not true
because Windows by default already uses
all of the CPU cores. I mean, just look
at what ChatG has to say about it. It is
used for testing purposes to limit the
CPU cores at boot with no performance
gain whatsoever. So keep this one
disabled and keep in mind that it's not
going to give you more FPS or even fixed
stutters. What will do is actually going
to services then hide all Microsoft
services and uncheck anything that you
don't want to start up with your
Windows. For example, the Mozilla
maintenance service and anything else
that you don't want to start up. Simply
uncheck them. Hit apply. And to take it
even further, you can go onto the
startup tab, click on open task manager,
and then disable any of the apps that
you don't want to start up with your
Windows. This is actually what will
improve your CPU and Windows performance
and give you more FPS. Once done, we can
simply close out of this and exit
without restart because we will be doing
that at the end. Another reason for high
CPU usage and low performance is the
useless Windows services that run in the
background while you are gaming. So,
let's get rid of the some of the most
annoying ones. To do that, open up the
Start menu and search for services and
then open it up. Inside of here, the
first one that you want to disable is
the Windows search. Now, this will not
completely disable the search feature.
It will just disable the indexing that's
constantly going on in the background in
order to free up the CPU cycles, hence
improving the CPU performance. So, right
click and go to properties. Make sure to
stop it and then set the startup type to
disabled and then hit okay. The next one
is the print spooler one which should be
right here. We're going to be doing the
same thing inside of this. Stop it and
then set it to disabled. And the last
one and the most important one in my
opinion is the CIS main one. For that we
will need to go to the S section and
then scroll down until we can find CIS
main. This is the super fetch service
that has been renamed to CIS main which
is constantly running in the background.
It does say that it maintains and
improves the system performance over
time. But what it does is actually
allows you to open up some apps a little
bit faster, but at the cost of
constantly using the CPU resources even
when you are not opening other apps and
you're only playing the game. So I
highly recommend that you go ahead and
disable this one. So simply go to
properties once again, stop it, and then
we are going to be setting the startup
type to disabled. Then hit okay. And now
we can close out of this. So there are a
lot of settings that we can change to
fix high CPU usage and improve GPU
performance. However, applying all of
them manually can take hours and you can
easily make mistakes. That's why I have
created this optimization pack with easy
to apply tweaks so that you can save
time and ensure that you're applying the
right changes to improve performance,
fix any FPS drops or stutters in every
game. For that, you will need to
download the ultimate CPU and GPU
optimization pack. The link will be in
the description. You can simply download
it from my website. Make sure that you
click the red download button and don't
click on anything else. Once you have
it, we're going to be starting off with
a custom power plan. Now, a power plan
is one of the most important things in
my opinion to draw out the most
performance from medium to low-end PCs.
This custom power plan that I created is
the one that has worked best for so many
people because I have constantly
benchmarked it and it has shown
improvement in not only the average FPS,
but the 1% lows and.1% lows as well,
which are very crucial for fixing
stutters. So, to import this power plan,
you will first need to apply this
registry file. Simply double click, hit
yes, and okay. And now you should be
able to import this power plan by simply
double clicking on it. Once it has been
imported, simply go into the power plans
and apply the Rec OS power plan. We're
going to be doing more with this later
on, but for now, close out of this. Go
back into the pack and open up the CPU
priority. The CPU priority will
automatically set the CPU to prioritize
games and foreground tasks instead of
constantly changing priorities between
background and foreground applications.
So go into the folder of the CPU that
you're using. I'm using an Intel CPU.
And then simply apply the priority
registry file inside of there. Once you
are done with that, we can move on to
CPU optimizations. Now, these will help
you improve CPU responsiveness by
limiting the background tasks that hog
up the CPU utilization so that the CPU
can better perform in realtime tasks
like games. This is going to disable
game DVR and the game bar. This is going
to disable Spectre and Meltdown, which
are like security features that are
completely outdated now. and are no
longer required. However, they still use
up the CPU resources. This is going to
improve CPU responsiveness by turning
off network throttling index and this is
going to apply the best win32 CPU
priority in order to prioritize your
games. So, go one by one, apply all of
these registry files and then move on to
CPU code tweaking. Inside of here, you
will find the setup for quick CPU setup
which you can install just like any
other software. Once you have it
installed, simply right click on it and
run it as admin. Inside of here, the
first thing that you want to do is make
sure that the power plan is set to the
recos power plan. Then also ensure that
all of these values are set to 100% and
this is set to AC, which it should be by
default if you're using my power plan.
If you don't want to use my power plan,
then you can go ahead and use the
ultimate or the high performance power
plan. Just make sure to copy all of
these values. Then under the advanced
CPU settings, just go ahead and copy
these ones as well, which once again
should be applied by default if you're
using my power plan. Then you can hit
apply. Close out of this. Then apply
this one as well. And you can close out
of this. One more thing that you should
always be checking inside of here is the
CPU temperature. Make sure that it never
goes over 80° C. As you can see, it's
hovering around 50ish, which is
completely fine. As long as it doesn't
go over 80, you should be fine. If it
does, though, then make sure to reapply
the thermal paste or maybe replace your
CPU if it's just damaged. Moving on,
we're going to be optimizing the GPU
performance to ensure that we get the
most FPS out of our games. For that,
open up the GPU optimization tweaks
inside of here. The clear.bat will clear
out all of the temporary files as well
as any shader cache. So, simply right
click on it and run it as admin. The
next two optimizations are the ones that
you will need to select based on your
system specs. So, for low to medium-end
GPUs and systems, you will want to apply
this one. And for high-end systems, you
would want to apply this one. If you are
not really sure what system you have,
you can comment down the specs and I
will personally let you know which one
you should apply. For the sake of the
video, I'm going to apply the low to
medium end optimizations and then we can
move on to the GPU thread optimizations.
This will help your GPU to handle
multi-threaded apps more efficiently,
reduce stutters, and ensure better GPU
performance in games. Simply select the
GPU that you have. For me, I'm using an
AMD GPU. So, I'm going to apply that one
and then simply apply these thread
priorities. Then, we can move on to MSI
utility. And this one is a really
crucial performance improvement that you
should always apply. This ensures that
you always get the most performance out
of your GPU rather than letting it
underperform and of course lose on FPS.
But for this to properly work, you will
need to run it as administrator. Once
this opens up, select your GPU, make
sure that the MSI box is checked, and
then set the priority to high. You can
also do the same thing for any other
supported devices, but that's really not
that important. Just make sure that the
GPU is set to MSI mode, then hit apply
and close out of this. And the final
thing inside of this bag is the advanced
section where you can overclock your AMD
or Intel CPU. However, this is for
advanced users only. So, make sure that
you know what you are doing and make
sure to follow these guides properly if
you're going to overclock your CPU.
Moving on to some of the crucial Windows
settings in order to improve the CPU and
GPU performance. Starting off, go into
the settings, then go into privacy,
scroll down until you can find
background apps, and make sure that
these are turned off. If this is turned
on, it will constantly be using the CPU
in background and you will always face
stutters and FPS drops inside of your
games. Now we can close out of this.
Right click on your desktop and go to
display settings. Inside of here, scroll
down and click on graphics settings. And
if you have the hardware accelerated GPU
scheduling option, make sure that you
turn that on. It's going to offload some
of the GPU rendering, hence giving you
improved performance, especially in
newer titles. Moving on, make sure that
the app preference is set to desktop
apps and click on browse. We are going
to be setting our games to the highest
performance available from our GPU. In
order to do that, go inside of your
games. For me, I'm going to go ahead and
use Fortnite. Just simply go to
Fortnite, Fortnite game binaries win 64,
and then select this one, the Fortnite
client, win 64 shipping.exe, and then
hit add. Go ahead and add any other
games that you want as well. Then click
on options and set it to high
performance. This is going to ensure
that the GPU is always prioritizing this
game instead of any other rendering
option. Simply hit save and you can
close out of this. Now you can restart
your PC and enjoy the improved
performance. If this video helped you in
any way, shape, or form, then make sure
to leave a like down below and watch
this video to optimize your PC even
further.